[DOCFIX] Add master monitoring doc (#16358)
Alluxio/alluxio: docs/en/operation/Troubleshooting.md

- `ADVANCED`: samples and tracks recent accesses, higher overhead
- `PARANOID`: tracks for leaks on every resource allocation, highest overhead. 

## Master Internal Monitoring

Alluxio master periodically checks the master process resource usage. This interval is controlled by
`alluxio.master.throttle.heartbeat.interval` (default 3 seconds). In the check, a point in time(PIT) resource usage is captured,

> and a certain number of PITs (`alluxio.master.throttle.observed.pit.number`, default 3) are recorded. The PIT includes the following information.

Author: no throttling so far

```console
directMemUsed=5268082, heapMax=59846950912, heapUsed=53165684872, cpuLoad=0.4453061982287778, pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS=190107, totalJVMPauseTimeMS=0, rpcQueueSize=0, pitTimeMS=1665995384998}
```

- `directMemUsed`: memory allocated by ByteBuffer.allocateDirect

> - `heapMax` : the allowed max heap size

Author: Just captured from the same structure. Interesting thing is sometimes they are not same.

> - `heapMax` : the allowed max heap size

Reviewer: if this is what i think it is, this is only a constant if xms and xmx are set to be the same, such that the jvm is preallocated its maximum. otherwise, the jvm starts with its heap at the xms value and only allocates more if it is exceeded, up until the xmx value

> - `heapMax` : the allowed max heap size

Author: I agree it should be a fixed. Sometimes the values returned are slight different. But that is good for computation and record, so just put it there.

- `heapUsed` : the heap memory used

> - `cpuLoad` : the cpu load

Author: no, following how the metrics looks like

- `pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS` : aggregated total JVM pause time
- `totalJVMPauseTimeMS` : the JVM pause time since last PIT
- `rpcQueueSize` : the rpc queue size
- `pitTimeMS` : the point in time

The aggregated server indicators are the certain number of continuous PITs, this one is generated in a sliding window. The alluxio

> master has a derived indicator `Master.system.status` that is based on the heuristic algorithm.

Reviewer 2: We need to insert a section header here, to separate the two sections, which are "gathering input" and "taking actions according to the output", respectively.

> master has a derived indicator `Master.system.status` that is based on the heuristic algorithm.

Author: No throttling so far, just leave it for future

> master has a derived indicator `Master.system.status` that is based on the heuristic algorithm.

Reviewer: the status is derived from the aggregated input, so the suggested change is a more accurate description. i also recommend the suggested wording

```console
    "Master.system.status" : {
      "value" : "STRESSED"
    }
```

> The possible value are: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The possible states are: 
```

The possible statuses are: 
- IDLE
- ACTIVE
- STRESSED
- OVERLOADED

The system.status is mainly decided by the JVM pause time and the free heap memory. Usually the status transition is 

> `IDLE` <---> `ACTIVE` <---> `STRESSED` <---> `OVERLOADED`

Reviewer: how come these do not match with the status descriptions below?

Author: usually it is this kind of transition, only the jvm pause time will trigger an OVERLOADED directly.

Reviewer: i meant why is IDLE, ACTIVE, STRESSED, and OVERLOADED are the terms used here but OVERLOADED, DEESCALATED, UNCHANGE, and ESCALATED are the terms used below? shouldn't they be the same? am i confusing two things that are different?

Author: I see now. There are four systems status:
IDLE, ACTIVE,STRESSED,OVERLOADED

and the following rule means either directly set the status, or depending on the rule whether to escalate, deescalate or unchanged.

For example, 
if the JVM pause time is detected more than 10 seconds, set the system status to OVERLOADED
otherwise an upper/low boundaries are passed according the current status, and checking based on the boundaries， and decide the next move

Reviewer: then i recommend not using the `CAPITALIZE` format.

> - If the JVM pause time is longer than `alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time`, the system.status is directly set to `OVERLOADED`.

Author: @Xenorith here, the rule is more explicit, and the check is not only based on the aggregated ones,  DEESCALATING is mainly by checking the PIT values.

- If the used heap memory is less than the up used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is `UNCHANGE`

> - If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the up used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is `ESCALATED`.

Reviewer 2: These are design details, which belong in internal design docs.
They can evolve quite quickly as we find new metrics to add to the algorithm, and the specific rules applied to determine the state transitions are subject to change, too.

> - If the used heap memory is less than the up used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is `UNCHANGE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the used heap memory is less than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is `UNCHANGE`
```

also shouldn't `UNCHANGE` be `UNCHANGED` to match the tense of the other statuses?

> - If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the up used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is `ESCALATED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is `ESCALATED`.
```

The thresholds are
```properties
// JVM paused time
alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time

// heap used thresholds
alluxio.master.throttle.active.heap.used.ratio
alluxio.master.throttle.stressed.heap.used.ratio
alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.used.ratio

> ```

Author: Need more data from the user/customer.

> If the system status is `STRESSED` or `OVERLOADED`, WARN logs would be printed and the filesystem indicators are captured and printed in the log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the system status is `STRESSED` or `OVERLOADED`, a `WARN` level log would be printed containing the following the filesystem indicators:
```

```console
2022-10-17 08:29:41,998 WARN  SystemMonitor - System transition status is UNCHANGED, status is STRESSED, related Server aggregate indicators:ServerIndicator{directMemUsed=15804246, heapMax=58686177280, heapUsed=157767176816, cpuLoad=1.335918594686334, pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS=62455, totalJVMPauseTimeMS=6, rpcQueueSize=0, pitTimeMS=1665989354196}, pit indicators:ServerIndicator{directMemUsed=5268082, heapMax=59846950912, heapUsed=48601091600, cpuLoad=0.4453061982287778, pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS=190107, totalJVMPauseTimeMS=0, rpcQueueSize=0, pitTimeMS=1665995381998}

> 2022-10-17 08:29:41,998 WARN  SystemMonitor - The delta filesystem indicators FileSystemIndicator{Master.DeletePathOps=0, Master.PathsDeleted=0, Master.MetadataSyncPathsFail=0, Master.CreateFileOps=0, Master.ListingCacheHits=0, Master.MetadataSyncSkipped=3376, Master.UfsStatusCacheSize=0, Master.CreateDirectoryOps=0, Master.FileBlockInfosGot=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchFail=0, Master.FilesCompleted=0, Master.RenamePathOps=0, Master.MetadataSyncSuccess=0, Master.MetadataSyncActivePaths=0, Master.FilesCreated=0, Master.PathsRenamed=0, Master.FilesPersisted=658, Master.CompletedOperationRetryCount=0, Master.ListingCacheEvictions=0, Master.MetadataSyncTimeMs=0, Master.SetAclOps=0, Master.PathsMounted=0, Master.FreeFileOps=0, Master.PathsUnmounted=0, Master.CompleteFileOps=0, Master.NewBlocksGot=0, Master.GetNewBlockOps=0, Master.ListingCacheMisses=0, Master.FileInfosGot=3376, Master.GetFileInfoOps=3376, Master.GetFileBlockInfoOps=0, Master.UnmountOps=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchPaths=0, Master.getConfigHashInProgress=0, Master.MetadataSyncPathsSuccess=0, Master.FilesFreed=0, Master.MetadataSyncNoChange=0, Master.SetAttributeOps=0, Master.getConfigurationInProgress=0, Master.MetadataSyncPendingPaths=0, Master.DirectoriesCreated=0, Master.ListingCacheLoadTimes=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchSuccess=0, Master.MountOps=0, Master.UfsStatusCacheChildrenSize=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchOpsCount=0, Master.registerWorkerStartInProgress=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchCancel=0, Master.MetadataSyncPathsCancel=0, Master.MetadataSyncPrefetchRetries=0, Master.MetadataSyncFail=0, Master.MetadataSyncOpsCount=3376}

Reviewer 2: Can we format these output to be readable, at least in the docs?

Reviewer 2: But this line is too long and the information is not presented in a readable way.

```

> The monitoring indicators show the system status in a heuristic way, and that can reflect the system load.

Reviewer 2: Removing as it adds no additional information.

```suggestion
```

> The monitoring indicators show the system status in a heuristic way, and that labels the system load in a certain extent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monitoring indicators describe the system status in a heuristic way to have a basic understanding of its load.
```

- `ADVANCED`: samples and tracks recent accesses, higher overhead
- `PARANOID`: tracks for leaks on every resource allocation, highest overhead. 

## Master Internal Monitoring

> Alluxio master periodically checks its resource usage, including CPU and memory usage, and several internal data structures 

Author: Optional, by default turned on.
do that in every 3 seconds, that should be fine.

that are performance critical. This interval is configured by `alluxio.master.throttle.heartbeat.interval` (defaults to 3 seconds).
On every sampling point in time (PIT), Alluxio master takes a snapshot of its resource usage. And a certain number of PIT snapshots
(`alluxio.master.throttle.observed.pit.number`, defaults to 3) are recorded, those will be used to generate an aggregated

> one in a sliding window. 

Reviewer 3: A continuous number of PIT snapshots (number configured by `alluxio.master.throttle.observed.pit.number`, defaults to 3) will be saved and used to generate the aggregated resource usage.

This line better to include more information, e.g. what the aggregated resource usage used for?

Reviewer 3: i feel either we go simple, do not talk too much details e.g. Master keeps taking snapshots of resource usage and monitoring the overall healthiness based on the snapshots.

Or we give enough details about what snapshot and aggregated are used for

Each PIT includes the following metrics.

```console
directMemUsed=5268082, heapMax=59846950912, heapUsed=53165684872, cpuLoad=0.4453061982287778, pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS=190107, totalJVMPauseTimeMS=0, rpcQueueSize=0, pitTimeMS=1665995384998}
```

> - `directMemUsed`: direct memory allocated by ByteBuffer.allocateDirect

Reviewer 3: Backstick around ByteBuffer.allocateDirect

- `heapMax` : the allowed max heap size
- `heapUsed` : the heap memory used
- `cpuLoad` : the cpu load

> - `pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS` : aggregated total JVM pause time from the beginning

Reviewer 3: ？？ it's a PIT, but it's a aggregated time from the beginning (what beginning? the process start time?)

Author: same data structure, not used in aggregated env.

Author: if the aggr one is based on pit2 (pit2 - pit1), pit3(pit3 - pit2), pit4 (pit4 - pit3), then this number would be (pit4 - pit1)

Reviewer 2: If this is already aggregated, then it shouldn't be included in a PIT value, but included in an aggregated representation of several PITs. Listing it here in the description of a PIT is confusing.

- `totalJVMPauseTimeMS` : the JVM pause time since last PIT
- `rpcQueueSize` : the rpc queue size

> - `pitTimeMS` : the timestamp in millisecond at the time when this snapshot is taken

Reviewer 3: remove "at the time"

The aggregated server indicators are the certain number of continuous PITs, this one is generated in a sliding window. The alluxio
master has a derived indicator `Master.system.status` that is based on the heuristic algorithm.

```console
    "Master.system.status" : {
      "value" : "STRESSED"
    }
```

The possible statuses are: 

> - IDLE

Reviewer 3: All backsticks around value

- `ACTIVE`
- `STRESSED`
- `OVERLOADED`

The system.status is mainly decided by the JVM pause time and the free heap memory. Usually the status transition is 
`IDLE` <---> `ACTIVE` <---> `STRESSED` <---> `OVERLOADED`
- If the JVM pause time is longer than `alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time`, the system.status is directly set to `OVERLOADED`.

> - If the used heap memory is greater than the low used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is `DEESCALATED`.
> - If the used heap memory is less than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is `UNCHANGE`
> - If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is `ESCALATED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As the used heap memory grows or shrinks, the value of the system status will update if it crosses any of the thresholds defined by the configurations below
```

resource usage which is used to decide the system status.

Each PIT includes the following metrics.

```console
directMemUsed=5268082, heapMax=59846950912, heapUsed=53165684872, cpuLoad=0.4453061982287778, pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS=190107, totalJVMPauseTimeMS=0, rpcQueueSize=0, pitTimeMS=1665995384998}
```

- `directMemUsed`: direct memory allocated by `ByteBuffer.allocateDirect`
- `heapMax` : the allowed max heap size
- `heapUsed` : the heap memory used
- `cpuLoad` : the cpu load
- `pitTotalJVMPauseTimeMS` : aggregated total JVM pause time from the beginning
- `totalJVMPauseTimeMS` : the JVM pause time since last PIT
- `rpcQueueSize` : the rpc queue size
- `pitTimeMS` : the timestamp in millisecond when this snapshot is taken

The aggregated server indicators are the certain number of continuous PITs, this one is generated in a sliding window. The alluxio
master has a derived indicator `Master.system.status` that is based on the heuristic algorithm.

```console
    "Master.system.status" : {
      "value" : "STRESSED"
    }
```

The possible statuses are: 
- `IDLE`
- `ACTIVE`
- `STRESSED`
- `OVERLOADED`

> The system.status is mainly decided by the JVM pause time and the free heap memory. Usually the status transition is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The system status is mainly decided by the JVM pause time and the free heap memory. Usually the status transition is 
```

`IDLE` <---> `ACTIVE` <---> `STRESSED` <---> `OVERLOADED`

> - If the JVM pause time is longer than `alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time`, the system.status is directly set to `OVERLOADED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the JVM pause time is longer than `alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time`, the system status is directly set to `OVERLOADED`.
```

> - If the used heap memory is greater than the low used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is deescalated.

Reviewer 2: Is this a typo? or do I misunderstand how the algorithm work?
```suggestion
- If the used heap memory is less than the low used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is deescalated.
```

- If the used heap memory is less than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is unchanged.
- If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is escalated.

> - As the used heap memory grows or shrinks, the value of the system status will update if it crosses any of the thresholds defined by the configurations below

Reviewer 2: Are these conditions evaluated in order as described here? Is so, I suggest using an ordered list, instead of an unordered one.

You can do so by:

```
1. A
2. B
3. C

```

If not, then I think we need more clarification on how exactly are the rules. But again, I think that would be too much implementation details.

The system.status is mainly decided by the JVM pause time and the free heap memory. Usually the status transition is 
`IDLE` <---> `ACTIVE` <---> `STRESSED` <---> `OVERLOADED`
- If the JVM pause time is longer than `alluxio.master.throttle.overloaded.heap.gc.time`, the system.status is directly set to `OVERLOADED`.
- If the used heap memory is greater than the low used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is deescalated.
- If the used heap memory is less than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the system.status is unchanged.

> - If the aggregated used heap memory is greater than the upper used heap memory boundary threshold, the sytem.status is escalated.

Author: changed @Xenorith
